"When you look at the overview of the entire everything in the world, everything is really mind,
for example. What we call in the world, things good for us, things bad to us.
When you think that, who is deciding good for us and good for God or not good? Think about that. It
's all mind. Mind is making decisions.
Things are good for us, things are good for that. It's not something from outside coming, I'm good
for you, I'm bad for you. It's nothing from outside.
It's ultimately one's own decision, one's own compliment. This is mind to others. So, things good
for us, things bad for us, things to be accepted, things to be rejected. Those are the things.
So this, again, is mind. Take care of it. This is not just an order or something. Talking is really
just, we have to make sure everything is mind.
And then, for example, in the Buddha's teaching, what Buddha gives first? Teachings. Paul Noble
Truth teaches. Paul Noble Truth teaches.
Is Paul Noble Truth teaching outside? Of course, on the book, read it, but it really is outside.
That is, again, is mind.
What are Paul Noble Truth teaches? Paul Noble Truth teaching, suffering truths. So what is, who is
experiencing suffering?
That truth is truly experiencing suffering or difficulty challenging us. It's our mind, related to
the mind, completely.
And what is the cause of suffering truths? Cause of suffering truths. What's that cause? Again, is
that outside?
No. Cause of suffering truth is all the negative emotions. Negative emotions, ignorance, attachment
, anger, anger, hate, all that.
So it's not outside. It's with mind. And then the path truths. Who is following the path?
Who is following the path? And such as the five paths. All the book, even the F Noble Paths.
Think of those F Noble Paths. Everything, no matter what the explanation, what it details
thoroughly and practically and so clearly, precisely, everything,
everything, everything comes down, it's all mind. So that means talking about mind again. All is
about mind.
So path. And then five paths. Accumulation path, application path, seeing path, meditation path,
normal starting path.
Again, if we look up with this mind, it's nothing outside. And then as well as 10 boomies, looks at
all those different stages and all these things.
Again, it's mind. There's nothing else outside. All connected with mind.
Then if you go up in the mind only school, who was it? We learned that. What Buddha said also? All
noble children, noble children,
entire this three realm is mind. Three realm is mind. He said, everything, entirely this. Three
realm, the desire realm, home realm, homeless realm, that is mind.
How that started? As we learned the last time, we've been making many times and you'll know too,
this is due to the three habit patterns.
All that started. That habit pattern started from the biggest time. Time we deluded. Time we del
uded.
Time where the divisions between the Buddha and the Buddha and ourself. That time we started
developing.
We carried with the force of our displays and grasping, clinging, holding, and then went on and on,
went on and on.
And then all these things. So it's all mind. This is not just this mind only school.
But from mind only school, all the way to the zoki teaching, everything is mind. That's what here,
great masters pointing out is all perception of the imperial mind.
All is mind pointing out this. And it is therefore, there's famous thunder called dorty khorki
thunder.
They also said, beyond or beside the mind there is no samsara, there is no nirvana.
All here. And beside the previous mind, there is no Buddha, no sentient beings.
So all this, that means samsara display, nirvana display, all that started with this mind.
Therefore, mind is so important.
Mind is a jewel of everything, ruler of everything, producer of everything, and mind is experienced
by mind. Mind back to mind.
That's how we continually carry. For that reason, in the Buddha teaching, always make it deluded.
It is all deluded, delusions.
This delusion is magical display, according to any other teachings.
If we don't have the grasping, clinging, and we don't begin to suffer with that, it's magical
display.
This magical display is never going to end. When you reach the enlightenment, enlightenment time
will become the Buddha.
This time, this magical display will become the magical display of enlightenment environments.
But that time is not really suffering, not stumbling, not clashing each other.
It's all enlightenment. So this is how it is. And then, in the Madam Schools, such as the great
Master Chaturkati,
all those say, not just everyone, one, from the mind-only school, all the way to the Dokkin,
everything is really the mind.
And this great Master said, through the power of mind, created the karmas, karmas, and then created
all everything related with that.
If there's no joy in mind, that is, all the delusions display, karma will be ended.
That time ended. So this is how.
And then, when we come to the Vadiyana teachings, such as in another teaching, Vadiyana teaching, V
arko,
in the Vadiyana teaching, Mahayava teaching, what is it called?
Again, it's called three Vadir status. Vadir form, Vadir sound, Vadir mind.
Again, we look this carefully. It's mind. It's only what is described by the mind. It is mind's
display.
So it's not something that outside, separate things, it's all side of the mind.
And then in that Anu-Yoga teaching, what is it called? Three mandalas.
Mandalas of the Buddha, some in the Badri.
Mandala of the Buddha, some in the Badar, male or female.
And their displays, or their emanations.
Again, it is mind's display of the nature of the mind. All mind.
And in the Dokki teaching, we are going through all its display of the three caayas.
Three caayas are not outside. Three caayas are within our nature of the mind.
That again, this great Master pointed out, again and again.
So therefore, all these things is really nothing but mind.
And then in the Samsara, we are caught with this, with dualities.
We are principally, what? In the Samsara, we are caught by the power of mind,
such as known as feeling and ideas. These ideas.
Ideas are translated as feeling or ideas can be translated as perceptions too.
These perceptions and ideas are so big, so important.
It is mind. But when we are clinging, grasping, holding,
this is the powerful engine, powerful tool to rule, run,
and maintain the samsara, a feeling and the ideas or the perceptions.
And the feeling is so important. The first is so important for us is feeling,
for the samsara beings. That is immediately important.
And I am feeling. And among that, of course, there are so many feelings,
kind of divided according to six senses. But among that, good feelings are important.
Bad feelings we like to reject, we like to avoid.
In order to achieve that, in order to do that, then we struggle.
Feelings are the number one important in the samsara.
And when the feeling is a little comfortable, it is just a whole rough feeling.
Then idea is very important. Idea is. That is the belief or the will.
Belief, this belief, that belief, this is.
Nothing externally exists. It is something that out is everything.
But it is all mental created. Idea is important. So important.
Idea is more stronger than even the feeling.
Feeling, when the feelings are a little comfortable, what is it called?
A nice roof on the head and a nice braid to the tummy.
That is then good for the feelings. That is the feeling.
But when that is comfortable, idea is so important.
The belief is important. Then we struggle. We fight.
That is it. Then all the look to the end of the world,
most of the disaster, the difficult troubles are coming because of our idea or the belief.
It is not something really happening, extending, coming here, do this, do that.
It is all these ideas. That is what in the teachings,
in the samsara is learned by the true, the feeling and the ideal of the resurgence.
And through that, what is called? Don't create the calmness.
Then all the acting back and forth.
All that is as like interdependent, ordinary, related to each other and running through,
and maintaining, recycling, and reactivating, and moving,
again, ignite, and then all these thoughts.
So fundamentally, again, looking, this all starts with the mind.
Feeling is the mind. Perception, the idea or the belief is the mind.
That's the hope. And therefore, now we like to go beyond that turbulence,
beyond that turbulence, beyond that horizons, beyond that thunderstorms.
And then behind that what? Behind that is empty.
Even the perception or even the feeling and this idea of belief,
if you look, is empty. There is no substantial solid existing anything.
And for this reason, great masters here said, in some other teachings,
because it is produced by mind. Mind is empty.
There is no solid existing mind. Therefore, what even displays the mind is empty.
The only one is a mistake. We grasp it. We cling it.
We act with that grasp and cling it. Then we get the consequence.
That's the whole topic. So this is what this great master is pointing out.
One after another, because I said so many times, when we meditate,
we need confidence. We need courage. We need confidence.
Confidence is certainty's wisdom. Certainty's wisdom brings confidence.
Because you see, that's the truth. There is nothing to linger,
nothing to hesitate, nothing to pull back. It is high habit.
And then with that confidence, we need courage.
Courage, as I said, we are changing the course of the habit pattern
that carried so many lifetimes. Until now, we are changing that.
It is not always easy, not always simple.
Sometimes it's challenging, but it's a courage and commitment.
That's why also in the Buddha teaching, what's called bodhisattvas.
Sattva means courageous. Courage is one for the enlightenment.
That's why it's also called warriors, a worship for the enlightenment.
Breathe really for the enlightenment.
Breathe joy, and bring up love and compare your kindness.
It's also not easy. It's not easy, not simple.
Bring that God, bring back that. Therefore courage and commitment.
If we know the value and the importance and need of that,
then stand tall and firm and strong with that realization.
That is known as courageous one's enlightenment.
Therefore, this is the discipline of the mind.
This is the realization, and then we go here, back to the trades.